In Linux, By default after kernel panic, Linux waits for a system admin to restart or power cycle server.. We can change this behavior and set to reboot automatically when a kernel panic occurs.. For that, we have to change the value set on "kernel.panic" kernel parameter.
 

Now we have to check the current value on this kernel parameter in Linux server:
 
[root@myserver ~]# cat /proc/sys/kernel/panic
 0
 [root@myserver ~]# sysctl -a | grep kernel.panic
 kernel.panic = 0
 
To make the Linux server automatically reboot after a kernel panic, we have to set a value greater than 0. The value should be the number of seconds to wait before automatic reboot of the server. 
 

For example , if you set value 60 , then the server will wait for 60 seconds before automatic reboot after the kernel panic. To make this change permanent, edit /etc/sysctl.conf and set it there.
 
[root@myserver ~]# echo "10" > /proc/sys/kernel/panic
 [root@myserver ~]# cat /etc/sysctl.conf |  grep kernel.panic 
 kernel.panic = 10


ques:- what is kernel panic error ? how will you fix it if you have face it after rebooting without the the help of rescue disk ?
ans-
Many of the Mac OSX or similar Unix like operating system
users may face a type of error known as “Kernel Panic”. When
this error message get displayed, you need to restart your
system as your system stops working and require restart.
Since the system is not in the state that you can perform
the normal restart and therefore you need to force restart
the computer. At that time if you were in the middle of the
process or working with some kind of unsaved document then
it will also be lose.

The general causes of kernel panic in Mac OS X include:

   1. Defective or incompatible RAM
   2. Incompatible, obsolete or corrupted kernel extensions
   3. Incompatible, obsolete or corrupted Drivers
   4. Hard Disk corruption that include bad sectors,
directory corruption and other hard disk errors
   5. Incorrect permissions on System files and folders
   6. Less RAM or Hard Drive Memory
   7. Defects in hardware, CPU or programming errors
   8. Incompatible hardware

Other than these the Mac Kernel Panic occurs when the core
component of Mac (kernel) gets an unexpected user
instruction and fails to handle that instruction properly.

Kernel Panic Fix in Mac OS X

It is monitored that the kernel panic does not come
frequently but if it’s occurred then restarting the computer
will solve the problem but if the error occurs due to the
corrupted/incompatible system resources then reinstall Mac
OSX. When you go for the fresh installation of Mac OSX, the
primary volume need to be formatted and all the data present
over that volume will be lost. This condition can be a bad
dream as you can lose lots of important data which you had
saved on that system volume.
